[WIP] DOCS-1043: Added topics relating to ALP (#257)
tigera/docs: calico-enterprise/network-policy/application-layer-policies/alp-tutorial.mdx

---

> description: Learn how you can apply ALP to your workloads and control ingress traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to apply ALP to your workloads and control ingress traffic.
```

---

> # Enforce application layer policies on your apps (tutorial)

Reviewer: # Application layer policy tutorial

Author: Done

> This tutorial demonstrates how to use {{prodname}} application layer policy to mitigate some common threats in a sample banking application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows how to use {{prodname}} application layer policy to restrict ingress traffic for applications and microservices.
```

> Assume that the application is installed in your {{prodname}} cluster and that the following application pods are running. 

Reviewer: ### Set up
- A {{prodname}} cluster is running with application layer policy enabled
- Cluster has three microservices: customer, database, summary
- The `customer web service` should not have access to the backend database, but should have access to clients outside the cluster 

```
NAME                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
customer-2809159614-qqfnx   3/3       Running   0          21h
database-1601951801-m4w70   3/3       Running   0          21h
summary-2817688950-g1b3n    3/3       Running   0          21h
```
Imagine what would happen...

Author: Done

```
NAME                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
customer-2809159614-qqfnx   3/3       Running   0          21h
database-1601951801-m4w70   3/3       Running   0          21h
summary-2817688950-g1b3n    3/3       Running   0          21h
```

Here, we have three microservices - customer, database, and summary. Only pods that need access to a service should get it.
The customer web service does not need, and should not have direct access to the backend database. The customer web service needs to 
directly interact with clients outside the cluster, some of whom may be malicious. 

Imagine what would happen if an attacker were to gain control of the customer web pod in our
application. Let's simulate this by executing a remote shell inside that pod.

    kubectl exec -ti customer-<fill in pod ID> -c customer -- bash

Notice that from here, we get direct access to the backend database. For example, we can list all the entries in the database like this:

    curl http://database:2379/v2/keys?recursive=true | python -m json.tool

(Piping to `python -m json.tool` nicely formats the output.)

> ## Applying a network policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Apply application layer policy
```

> With a {{prodname}} policy, you can mitigate risks to the banking application.

Reviewer: In this step, we get the application layer policy YAML and apply it. Note that the policy scope is cluster-wide.

Author: @bmckercher123 Do you want me to add these two sentences?

> 

Reviewer: `wget {{filesUrl}}/security/tutorials/app-layer-policy/manifests/30-policy.yaml`
`kubectl create -f 30-policy.yaml`

Author: Done

    wget {{filesUrl}}/security/tutorials/app-layer-policy/manifests/30-policy.yaml
    kubectl create -f 30-policy.yaml

> Let's examine this policy piece by piece. It consists of three policy objects, one for each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's examine this policy piece by piece. First, notice that an application layer policy looks like a regular {{prodname}} network policy. The only difference you'll see is the ability to use the application layer policy parameters in network policy. Another important difference is that you'll see HTTP traffic flows in Manager UI in features like Service Graph. 

Next, there are three policy objects, one for each...
```

kind: GlobalNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: summary
spec:
  selector: app == 'summary'
  ingress:
    - action: Allow
      source:
        serviceAccounts:
          names: ['customer']
  egress:
    - action: Allow
```

The second policy protects the account summary microservice. We know the only consumer of this
service is the customer web app, so we restrict the source of incoming connections to the service
account for the customer web app.

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: GlobalNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: database
spec:
  selector: app == 'database'
    ingress:
      - action: Allow
        source:
          serviceAccounts:
            names: ["summary"]
    egress:
      - action: Allow
```

The third policy protects the database. Only the summary microservice should have direct access to
the database.

### Verify the policy is working

Let's verify our policy is working as intended. First, return to your browser and refresh to
ensure policy enforcement has not broken the application.

Next, return to the customer web app. Recall that we simulated an attacker gaining control of that
pod by executing a remote shell inside it.

>     kubectl exec -ti customer-<fill in pod ID> -c customer bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `kubectl exec -ti customer-<fill in pod ID> -c customer bash`
```

Repeat our attempt to access the database.

>     curl -I http://database:2379/v2/keys?recursive=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `curl -I http://database:2379/v2/keys?recursive=true`
```

> We have left out the JSON formatting because we do not expect to get a valid JSON response. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We omitted the JSON formatting because we do not expect to get a valid JSON response. This
```

---

> description: Learn how you can apply ALP to your pods and control ingress traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn how you can apply ALP to your workloads and control ingress traffic.
```

```
NAME                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
customer-2809159614-qqfnx   3/3       Running   0          21h
database-1601951801-m4w70   3/3       Running   0          21h
summary-2817688950-g1b3n    3/3       Running   0          21h
```

Here, we have three microservices - customer, database, and summary. Only pods that need access to a service should get it.
The customer web service does not need, and should not have direct access to the backend database. The customer web service needs to 
directly interact with clients outside the cluster, some of whom may be malicious. 

Imagine what would happen if an attacker were to gain control of the customer web pod in our
application. Let's simulate this by executing a remote shell inside that pod.

    kubectl exec -ti customer-<fill in pod ID> -c customer -- bash

Notice that from here, we get direct access to the backend database. For example, we can list all the entries in the database like this:

    curl http://database:2379/v2/keys?recursive=true | python -m json.tool

(Piping to `python -m json.tool` nicely formats the output.)

#### Applying network policy

> With a {{prodname}} policy, you can mitigate all the risks in the YAO Bank application.

Reviewer 2: _all_ might be too.. ambitious? 😅 

```suggestion
With a {{prodname}} policy, you can mitigate risks to the YAO Bank application.
```

    wget {{filesUrl}}/security/tutorials/app-layer-policy/manifests/30-policy.yaml
    calicoctl create -f 30-policy.yaml

Let's examine this policy piece by piece. It consists of three policy objects, one for each
microservice.

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: GlobalNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: customer
spec:
  selector: app == 'customer'
  ingress:
    - action: Allow
      http:
        methods: ['GET']
  egress:
    - action: Allow
```

> This policy protects the customer web app. Since this application is customer facing, we do not

Reviewer 2: I really wish there was a way to display an explanation _beside_ a code snippet. But for now, I think I would say 'The (above) first policy...'. because:

- it definitely tells you where the subject policy is, which precedes this sentence
- We start using 'first', which is followed by 'second', 'third' in the following policy yaml items.. for uniformity

restrict what can communicate with it. We do, however, restrict its communications to HTTP `GET`
requests.

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: GlobalNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: summary
spec:
  selector: app == 'summary'
  ingress:
    - action: Allow
      source:
        serviceAccounts:
          names: ['customer']
  egress:
    - action: Allow
```

> The second policy protects the account summary microservice. We know the only consumer of this

Reviewer 2: Since the ambiguity has been cleared above, we can proceed to continuing as normal.. can leave this one as is (in relation to my other comment)
